---
layout: default
title: PLUG | Portsmouth Linux User Group | November 2014 Meet
---
<div>
	<h1>November 2014 Meet</h1>
	<p><b>Saturday 15th November, 1pm to 6pm at <a href="../venue.html">Broad Oak Social Club</a></b></p>
	<p><b class="blue">Tor, the darknet, online anonymity and privacy</b><b> - Gareth Owen</b></p>
	<p>Gareth teaches and undertakes research into Cryptography and Digital Forensics at the
	<a href="http://www.port.ac.uk/">University of Portsmouth</a>. Here is his abstract:</p>
	<p>Tor is an anonymisation network which allows users to browse the internet without their true IP address being identified. Tor also
	allows those in countries who censor the internet to bypass that censorship both by allowing users to access censored sites and to
	host websites which would otherwise land them in jail if it were possible to trace them.</p>
	<p>Initially, I will talk about how Tor works explaining the infrastructure and high-level protocol. I will also introduce Tor Hidden
	Services, untraceable websites, and how this service is provided within the network. Briefly, I then touch on the Silk Road and Freedom
	hosting hidden sites.</p>
	<p>Secondly, I will talk about I will explain how countries such as China and Iran have attempted to block Tor and what steps have been
	taken to minimise this. I will also explain attacks against the Tor users and network infrastructure that have been developed in
	academia (and the community) along with defences that can be deployed to minimise the risks.</p>
	<p>Finally, I will cover how the FBI took down Silk Road and delivered an exploit that was able to deanonymise visitors to Tor hidden
	services – covering the Firefox exploit and shellcode.</p>
	<p>You can download the slides from the talk <a href="201411.pdf">here</a>.</p>
	<p class="right"><a href="/talks/">Return to main talks page</a></p>
</div>
