---
layout: default
title: PLUG | Portsmouth Linux User Group | September 2016 Meet
---
<div>
	<h1>September 2016 Meet</h1>
	<p><b>Saturday 17th September, 1pm to 6pm at <a href="../venue.html">Broad Oak Sports and Social Club</a></b></p>
	<p><b class="blue">Open Source Science</b></p>
	<p><b>Matthew Withers</b><p>
	<p>Matt is a first year PhD student at the Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation which is part of the University of Portsmouth. His
	research is funded through the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) and focuses on probes of Dark Energy using mainly data
	from the new Extended Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (eBOSS) which is part of the fourth iteration of the Sloan Digital Sky
	Survey (SDSS) and the Dark Energy Survey (DES). He was awarded his Open BSc (Hons) degree from the Open University after gaining a
	Certificate of Higher Education from the University of Durham in Astronomy and Physics.</p>
	<p>He is interested primarily in Cosmology and Astrophysics - large scale structure, dark energy, dark matter, inflation, galaxy
	evolution, theories of cosmology... He is especially interested in the combination of theoretical models and observational data that
	work to constrain each other.</p>
	<p>Away from Physics, Matt is a keen amateur astronomer/astrophotographer and Linux enthusiast. He is very passionate about Free and
	Open Source Software (FOSS) and contributes to open source software where he can. Other interests include walking, reading and
	photography.</p>
	</br>
	<p><b>Open Source Science</b></p>
	<p>Science has changed a lot in the last couple of decades, not only in terms of the use of computing technology, but also in the size
	of collaborations and experiments. Matt will present a short overview of how the Open Philosophy has fared in this discipline and
	highlight some key projects where it has enabled massive advancements in our understanding.</p>
	<p class="right"><a href="/talks/">Return to main talks page</a></p>
</div>
