---
layout: default
title: PLUG | Portsmouth Linux User Group | December 2017 Meet
---
<div>
	<h1>December 2017 Meet</h1>
	<p><b>Saturday 16th December, 1pm to 6pm at <a href="../venue.html">Broad Oak Sports and Social Club</a></b></p>
	<p><b class="blue">Bring-a-box, Lightning Talks and Mince Pies</b></p>
	<p>There is no talk scheduled this month, but the floor is open for anyone who wants to do a lightning talk. These are 5 minute
	talks with 2 minutes for questions afterwards (give or take, if there is time available there's no need to cut short a good
	discussion!). The subject can be anything related to Linux and Open Source, and I would encourage anyone to consider doing
	something whatever your level of experience. Nobody knows everything, and it is just as valuable to hear about a new user's
	journey as it is to hear an in depth technical talk (it is a good reminder of where we all started and problems experienced users
	overlook).</p>
	<p>To get you thinking here are a few suggested areas:</p>
	<ul>
	<li>How you found Linux and what you like or would like to improve.</li>
	<li>A new piece of software you have found and have found useful.</li>
	<li>A problem you are having and would like help with.</li>
	<li>A fun new gadget that works with or runs Linux.</li>
	</ul>
	<p>There is no need to put together slides, and with just 5 minutes to fill the preparation is minimal (or just wing it!).</p>
	<p>In addition to the usual sandwiches I will bring along some mince pies to mark the festive season.</p>
	<p class="right"><a href="/talks/">Return to main talks page</a></p>
</div>
