---
layout: default
title: PLUG | Portsmouth Linux User Group | January 2018 Meet
---
<div>
	<h1>January 2018 Meet</h1>
	<p><b>Saturday 20th January, 1pm to 6pm at <a href="../venue.html">Broad Oak Sports and Social Club</a></b></p>
	<p><b class="blue">Bring-a-box and Lightning Talks</b></p>
	<p>With Christmas and the New Year rushing all to rapidly by I've not managed to arrange a talk this month, so we will open up the floor
         to Lightning Talks again. Last month we had a couple of impromptu ones that opened up discussion, so if you are unsure about doing one
         just think of it as opening up discussion to the floor rather than just a table :-)</p>
	<p>These are 5 minute talks with 2 minutes for questions afterwards (give or take, if there is time available there's no need to cut
         short a good discussion!). The subject can be anything related to Linux and Open Source, and I would encourage anyone to consider
         doing something whatever your level of experience. Nobody knows everything, and it is just as valuable to hear about a new user's
         journey as it is to hear an in depth technical talk (it is a good reminder of where we all started and problems experienced users
         overlook).</p>
	<p>To get you thinking here are a few suggested areas:</p>
	<ul>
	<li>How you found Linux and what you like or would like to improve.</li>
	<li>A new piece of software you have found and have found useful.</li>
	<li>A problem you are having and would like help with.</li>
	<li>A fun new gadget that works with or runs Linux.</li>
	</ul>
	<p>There is no need to put together slides, and with just 5 minutes to fill the preparation is minimal (or just wing it!). In fact there
         is no real pressure to fill the full 5 minutes even, if you have a tip to share the conversation will start and time will fly by!</p>
	<p>All things being equal and with a following wind I plan to do a quick "How to quit Vim" Lightning Talk.</p>
	<p class="right"><a href="/talks/">Return to main talks page</a></p>
</div>
